okay so in front of me are two fairly
popular laptops this is the XPS 13 two
and one this is the Spectre x-360 from
HP and this product in particular was
sent to me two months ago and a lot of
people are asking for a review on this
thing and I held off because I knew that
this was coming out I knew that the
spectre x360 was going to be updated and
I wanted to make sure that any review I
did of the XPS 13 tune 1 included this
in the conversation because these guys
are direct competitors and they are the
best tune 1 convertible laptops on the
market so if you're interested in
something like this then this is what
this video is for now if you don't know
what these are what makes a laptop a
convertible laptop is the fact that when
you can when you open it up you can flip
it all the way around so you can use
that as a tablet if you so choose or you
can just use it as a regular clamshell
laptop if that's your jam but it gives
you that versatility and I think this
stuff is very popular amongst students
because they just want that all in one
device that's what we have here so I am
very glad that it held off on this
review first because I'll just be
straight up the specter is better by
quite a bit and you'll understand why ok
the first thing I want to talk about is
performance now between the two I don't
care what intel's marketing team is
pushing on the internet these are not
high performance laptops at all these
are not good for video editing they're
not good for gaming what they are really
good at however is being really light
and very portable and being very good
for just regular computer use so that's
what you're looking for him go for him
but don't buy this stuff for video
editing or gaming because it's just
that's just a lie
alright between the two they are very
similar in performance I would say that
the Dell is ever so slightly better but
both of them have good and I guess
somewhat expected performance for a thin
and light premium laptop like this
you're gonna get good boost clock but
you can't sustain that boost clock for
an extended period of time now in terms
of ports they both have u s-- pc ports
that support done about three but the HP
has this really cool use be a port i've
never seen something like this it has
this flap that opens up
like you see on some Ethernet ports and
laptops but it allows you to have a USB
a connection on a relatively thin device
like this which is kind of cool
the use PC ports are on the other side
of the laptop one of them being on this
beveled area to the device it's not
annoying or anything it's just in a
different spot than most other laptops
out there so you should be aware of it
and as well there's a kill switch to the
webcam so if you want you can flick it
and it'll disable the webcam on the
inside completely which is nice in
today's era of privacy issues and such
now if you're wondering like why would
you consider a two-in-one device over
like a regular clamshell laptop the
biggest thing is just versatility so for
a lot of people if they want you can
just run your device in different like
clamshell mode in a tablet mode whatever
but one of the greatest features is the
ability to use your device as a tablet
with pen support and it's a lot more
comfortable and natural to write on a
screen in this position than it is for a
regular clamshell laptop and trying to
write on a vertical screen so that's one
of the biggest advantages of these types
of devices now to get inside these
laptops they're relatively easy it's
just a few screws for both of them they
both have RAM that's soldered on kind of
becoming a standard in 2019 but the
drive on the XPS 13 2 & 1 is also
soldered on you can't repair it you
can't replace it you can't do anything
with it because it's baked right onto
the motherboard the drive on the HP is
removable so it's replaceable upgradable
repairable whatever you need to do you
can do now I understand that the reason
why they bake drives onto motherboards
is to keep the device thinner and the
XPS 13 2 & 1
is thinner than the Spector I don't know
if it's worth it I feel like I would way
rather have every move will drive any
day of the week ok another thing I don't
like the Dell configurations they have a
4 gigabyte configuration at the base
model so 4 gigs of RAM and I feel like
in 2019 a device like this should not
have a configuration with 4 gigs of ram
that should be eight at the very minimum
like even Apple a company that's just
notorious for having expensive products
even their worst laptops have 8 gigs of
ram so this 4 gig of ram business has to
stop like it
it's disrespectful to the consumer to
sell a 20-19 premium laptop with four
gigs of ram no more okay the battery
size is just real quickly they both have
great battery life the XPS 13 gets
around 10 hours of battery life but the
spectre x360 gets closer to 11 so it's
say they're both good it's just that the
spectre has a bigger and better battery
life okay that wraps up the internal
speakers they're both in the same
position they're on the bottom neither
of them sound great but they're passable
they're both what you would expect in a
bottom firing Ultrabook speaker alright
let's talk about keyboards for a minute
the XPS 13 tune one uses a Maglev
keyboard so instead of a traditional
switch and dome it uses these magnets
underneath each key and the typing
experience does take some time to get
used to I've used these a lot in the XPS
15 two and one so I got used to it it's
still a decent keyboard but I don't love
it the HP Spectre x-360 has a marked
traditional keyboard this is really easy
to get used to and I think most people
on first try will prefer the specter
keyboard over the Maglev keyboard the
trackpad on the specter however is a
little bit small it's definitely smaller
than the XPS 13 2 and 1 but it's just
small compared to most ultrabooks
they've also switched this to Windows
precision drivers which is way better
than what they had last year they had
these synaptic drivers still last year
which were trash but I would say that
the XPS 13 tuned one has a better
trackpad experience overall mostly
because of its size now if you're on the
market for a tune one device like this
you've probably looked at either one of
these maybe both and the truth is I
think the spectre is a better device all
around it's got better battery life a
better keyboard better port selection
it's just a better product the one
advantage I would say that the dell has
is its cream I haven't talked about
either of their screens they're both
good but the Dells screen is just better
it's got a better aspect ratio it's
brighter and it's just a really good
screen it actually considered to be one
of the best screens I've seen on a
13-inch device but it's not enough of a
kind of advantage over what the spectre
offers for me to say that this is a
better product overall there's also one
other advantage Dell gives you a
and for 32 gigs of ram if you're someone
that needs that kind of memory for I'm
not sure who would like if you're
someone that works in an industry that
does require that kind of RAM in a
device with this kind of processing but
that's really where the advantages of
the XPS 13 2 & 1 and the Spector takes
everything else it really is the better
product of the two so I would just it's
my recommendation if you're interested
in a tune 1 ok hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs if you liked it
subs if you love to see you guys next
time
[Music]